= Schrader 

Schrader is a tool for patrolling MediaWiki projects.

== Installation

There are two possibilities for running schrader. The simplest is running the standalone executable schraderlinux. It works currently only for linux

=== Using the standalone executable

To do this, clone the schrader repository:

    git clone git://github.com/IgnacioIcke/schrader.git

Alternatively, you can download a zip package from http://github.com/IgnacioIcke/schrader (the link is called "download source")

Configure it (see below "Usage" section).

And run ./schraderlinux

Then, point your browser to http://localhost:3000

=== Using the sources 

You will need 
* ruby 1.8 and rubygems1.8 (sudo apt-get install ruby1.8 rubygems1.8)

IMPORTANT. Make sure that you are running ruby1.8 and not ruby1.9 by running
    ruby --version

* rbmediawiki gem (sudo gem install rbmediawiki)
* xml-simple gem (sudo gem install xml-simple)
* sqlite3 with headers ("sudo apt-get install libsqlite3-dev" on ubuntu)
* sqlite3-ruby (sudo gem install sqlite3-ruby) Don't install sqlite3, install sqlite3-ruby instead (http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1797199/uninitialized-constant-encoding-with-sqlite3-ruby-on-windows)
to install sqlite3-ruby in Ubuntu you may need to install ruby1.8-dev (sudo apt-get install ruby1.8-dev) otherwise you may get a "No such file to load -- mkmf" error. 
* sequel (sudo gem install sequel)
* r18n-desktop (sudo gem install r18n-desktop)

Then, clone the schrader repository:

    git clone git://github.com/IgnacioIcke/schrader.git

Alternatively, you can download a zip package from http://github.com/IgnacioIcke/schrader (the link is called "download source")

== Usage

First, edit config.yml and create userconfig.yml 

* config.yml holds general configuration. Here, user refers to the user in the IRC. You can leave it as "schrader", it is not important. Just be sure that you edit the info regarding your project: channel, site and api.

Languages currently supported are "en", "es" & "ca".
    nick:     schrader
    channel:  "#es.wikipedia"
    server:   browne.wikimedia.org
    port:     6667
    user:     schrader
    site:     "http://es.wikipedia.org"
    api:      "http://es.wikipedia.org/w/api.php"
    language: en

* userconfig.yml holds configuration critical for the user. This file should now be readable by other people, so make sure you give it appropiate permission.
    user:     Your wiki user
    password: Your password
    admin:    true or false (depending on whether you are admin or not)

Now you can run:

    ruby schrader.rb

and point your browser to http://localhost:3000

== License 

Schrader is licensed under GPLv3 (see LICENSE)
